hey everyone always bring your own
adapters it is very powerful it's a very
powerful thing I wanted to start today
talking about the fact that computers
are brittle and systems are brittle and
I have this MacBook and I was sitting
upstairs there yesterday and when we
were shuffling I moved slightly and
destroyed my screen so then I was like
narrow what am I going to do
thankfully the supply chain of the
massive corporate computing behemoths is
so good
that I could buy an Apple exactly like
mine yesterday transfer all the things
which was an adventure on its own by the
way to just like move files from one
computer to another is ridiculously hard
if you want to go really fast but crisis
averted and that was that work that was
just fine so this is a brand new
computer I don't have all my normal
environment set up so when I go into
demos I might be a little bit flimsy so
another cool bit of news is that what I
was thinking about this talk yesterday
and the whole goal was to talk about
ipfs the whole system in general
distributed applications and so on
I was actually struck by something that
I think is worth sharing with everyone
here a number of conversations yesterday
with people and some talks that I've
been listening to gave me the sense that
it's probably important to talk about
why we're doing IFS as a project and not
just like the why of the project itself
but what are the underlying reasons that
the ipfs community is coming together to
like work hard on a project and yeah so
there'll be a bit a section of the talk
that will be like but like why even like
do computer science in
like why why program and we'll get into
like philosophical stuff it'll be cool
but that will come in a bit so the goal
of the talk is to get to these demos at
the end but before that I'm going to
tell you about ipfs and what it is and
before that I'm going to tell you about
why the ipfs project is doing what it's
doing but really why at the beginning so
that's that's the we're going to start
with this like dive into into what it
what it means to be a computer scientist
what it means to be a developer and
engineer somebody who's crafting
software and deploying it to the rest of
the world but you know to not like bore
you we're going to start with a demo
first
so like we'll have one demo and then
we'll have like talking and then we'll
have more demos so before I jump into
that so one thing I wanted to show you
first is this cool chat application so
let's see if it works it's a little bit
flaky with Wi-Fi here and mostly because
this is a really old build but it's
called orbit and what orbit does is like
a chat client and it's sort of like IRC
but you see that I just connected and
like now there's like Victor over there
it's like chatting and so you know I can
say like hey what's up this peer over
here is like kind of like clunky and not
connecting well it's like super super
earlier so like my messages are
streaming from one to the other but it's
not like going from the other side and
so what's going on here in this
application is that there's there's no
traditional-style back-end app servers
like this is meant to be a like
peer-to-peer with clients and so this is
a a JavaScript implementation of the
ipfs protocol running in this node we
are fetching it from a DNS name normally
we don't use the NS names in the I
profess world but we refreshing from the
DNS name mostly because it's convenient
but that's just like downloading the
payload of the application and then it
runs a full IP FS node in JavaScript so
it's using a different transport for the
web directly in
in that tab I and then another thing
worth noting is it's not a hundred
percent peer-to-peer yet because we have
we need pub/sub as a primitive and we're
still implementing that and building it
it's actually in the Newton we're
developing it right right now so we're
relying on one library and service
somewhere to do like pub sub for us but
pops up is a pretty simple distributed
primitive so the the whole chat
application here is this long append
only log of messages so the idea is that
as we add entries to this message this
append only log is growing with every
new message and you're creating this
this graph of content think about it
like it so imagine that when you when
you're adding a commit to a graph this
is sort of what's going on here so
that's that's all of it like having some
trouble synching with people so it
messages are flowing from one one side
but not not necessarily to your other
and yeah if you want to check it out
it's there you may want to try and join
this chat and play play with it but
we've tried it in the regular Wi-Fi and
it's super slow because we use we use a
bunch of WebRTC connections and so we're
not super tuned for for like super low
bandwidth networks yet but that's one
one flavor of ipfs cool now I want to
show you I think that's kind of like in
the command line so it's white better
okay you probably want to whoa that's
loud you probably nope new keyboard
let's see what is the increasing font
size there we go
is that is that a little better do you
prefer white or do you prefer dark we
can do this
I think should work yeah so maybe go
better cool so in here I'm going to I'm
going to save a repo that I have I have
this like ipfs repo here I profess is a
command line tool and and so or a1
distribution of ipfs comes with a
command line tool and you can think of
it kind of like it you can think of it
like the Tauron it's a little bit of
both and it's it's own thing it's it's
own system in
as well so normally what you would do
with with an IP FS node you would like
to enter rip repos similar to get and
then you can start adding files right so
I'm in this demos directory and so say I
add this like calc directory what is it
it's like this huge web application and
so you see here that like it added all
these files and created this huge graph
right and so at the end it pops out a
hash which is the root of this whole
whole object tree right and so I can I
can take that hash and tree it kind of
like a file descriptor so I can LS that
and hey I get a sum like directory and I
can go into that navigate in there and
say hey what's in that repo and then
like what's in CSS and so on and and you
know simple file system stuff but the
cool thing is that my ipfs node also can
turn online and expose an HTTP endpoint
in my local machine to access all the
ipfs content directly through a browser
so now I can go into I should invert the
colors again and I can now go into
actually localhost
localhost 8080 ipfs slash that and now I
have like some something right and I can
go into that repo directory and hey I
have this calculator and now I have an
application and hey this is this
application is living in my machine it's
at this hash anybody could retrieve this
hash can now host that application as
well and so it's a it's a static page
app like a normal HTML static payload
application that is distributed it
doesn't have a host name the the it's
addressed by its content it's addressed
by its hash so anybody who has that
content can serve this application and
end to each other and so on I think of
it kind of like in a BitTorrent fashion
right so so this removes the authority
and the in the location addressing from
the equation entirely does that sort of
make sense is that there's like what are
you talking about no who knows cool so
that's that's one thing I want to show
you another thing so ipfs can also do
other stuff like
add let's see I think it's this one yeah
so here I have a video and you can so
right now this is local and we were
trying to see it play but for example
what it can stream video just fine like
anything else right so super left I'm
gonna let this play because it's a
really cool video it's very short and it
actually goes with our theme very well
you
so that was humanities epic by melody
sheep also artists by the way follow
them they make awesome stuff the reason
I wanted to play this video is that it
dives straight into the why we are doing
what we're doing and so this is this is
the part where we dive into the into the
really like core philosophical part of
this talk that I feel compelled to talk
about so this as we saw right now in
this like set of scenes that showed us
our world and like the devastation
that's happening how we've transformed
the planet all of them machines that
we're building and the space exploration
that we're doing and the software we're
creating and like all these machines
it's it's an amazing vision right it's
like it puts you right in it gets you to
think very carefully about your position
on the planet and your responsibilities
as a human being on the planet you see
the bad you see the nuclear explosions
and you see the good you see the health
care the convenience the machines that
we're making to extend our power the
exploration to space and so on and so as
software engineers as oft as software
developers as designers as product
builders as people involved in general
in the software ecosystem I think it's
really important to think about these
things and have them present with you
because it's kind of mind-blowing how
fast the world is changing in in this
epoch and it's a lot of it will be due
to us so what the people in this room do
and will continue doing for the next few
years of you know the next decades of
their lives will impact the rest of the
planet
dramatically whether you choose to or
not
you don't know exactly what your actions
will
will do you don't know what software you
create you don't know how people are
going to use that and so you have to
take go into software building with some
amount of responsibility and with this
knowledge that the software that you're
creating and delivering to people it's a
little bit like a superpower so the
amazing thing about software creation is
that it's not just like this magic like
it is a magical thing right you are
dealing with this arcane stuff like
you're dealing with like symbols and
manipulating symbols on like this
magical device that you're like entering
keys into and then getting this like a
mechanical thing to like do magic for
you like oftentimes across the planet
right like it's if you take that and go
back like a hundred years let alone a
thousand it's mind-blowing to to anyone
in that those times right so you're
using this magical power that you've
been that you've acquired and not only
are you using it to be powerful and
exert some power over the world but
you're using it to craft superpowers for
other people too you're creating
something that other people can then use
to acquire some valuable some valuable
capacity right so the ability to message
people across the planet the ability to
record your thoughts it decades ahead
the ability to connect with your loved
ones remotely that is something that you
are creating and you are gifting to
other people and it's it's amazing right
but it also comes with this huge battery
responsibility because the the
resilience that you build into your
applications how you structure them and
how you deploy them can have drastic
implications into their uses of the
superpower right so think about your
servers right like you run some
application you grant people some
superpower they're using it they're
loving it they're like now have acquired
some like new capability as a human
they've leveled up and then suddenly
like you decided my business is not
doing so well we're going to pivot
somewhere else and I'm just going to cut
off the service and it's just like whoa
like you just just took that back in a
in a in a way that like most users
did not expect right so you hear these
services all the time shut down so I
wanted you to like gain appreciation
really quickly of like the speed of
development like like this is like a log
graph of like the development of
humanity like really fast like going
from like basic tools to language to
agriculture to writing to science
appears and then suddenly this huge
explosion of devices and and we build
the Internet and we build computing and
we build like the alto and like we build
like the Internet and the web and
suddenly like all these other
applications and then now in the last 10
years like this enormous amounts of
developments are happening around
machine learning around neuroscience
around biotech and so on and the world
is changing so quickly
that you don't know you can't really
predict you you have no way of like
looking into the future right now to
know what the world will look like 15 20
years in the future so the skills that
you build now the powers that you create
for yourself and for others now might
have drastic implications to others
right so like just try to imagine like
the future right like in the next 10
years maybe we can predict we will
automate a ton of things we will hey
like bring beautiful automation to the
world and accidentally like probably put
millions of people around the planet out
of work without alternative without the
ability to like retrain into something
else right hey we'll jump into VR and VR
is really cool and amazing and feel so
cool
but then tons of people are going to get
totally addicted to this thing and we'll
just live their entire lives hooked up
to this device similar to how a lot of
people today are struggling with things
like you know gaming addictions and so
on VR is just going to be like the next
level hey some people are there there's
a hope to try and get to Mars this is
really cool this is something that we
desperately want to happen and it
actually might happen within the next 10
years so that's something pretty
exciting if you look into the next
log-log timescale like this is just
completely like speculative right like
we have very little ability to know
what's going to happen in the next
century like this is how short-sighted
we are like machine learning is is
advancing at a breakneck speed amazing
things are happening with machine
learning we might see potentially AI
potentially human uploads if
neuroscience gets really
in this century we don't know we might
develop nanotech we might develop like
with VR and so on we might create the
Metaverse and then suddenly we don't
need physical interaction anymore we can
just do everything digital and this this
is stuff that you will see this is stuff
that like potentially if if certain
conditions in the in the in the
development of software go in a
particular direction you might be faced
with this kind of situation at the same
time we might establish a colony on Mars
which would be sweet that would be
amazing to get to the century right like
anyone want to go to Mars here yeah a
few sweet will go hang out there but
this is this is concerning right like
imagine thinking like a thousand years
in the future like no idea right like a
I going to turn evil and kill us all may
be uploaded people are gonna like seize
power and like subjugate the rest of
humanity possibly are we going to build
like warp drives that go faster than the
speed of light
who knows maybe it's theoretically
potentially possible now we have very
little ability to look that far into the
future right and like 10k we're like
just speculating like if we survive that
long sweet um 100k hey like maybe let's
go and explore the galaxy and like send
out vanaman probes and tried like you
know explore everything and then you
know 1 million like no idea like and the
crazy thing is that like we don't have
certainty that we'll be around in these
timescales
when if we look back right like it was
so slow like the million years to a
hundred thousand years like almost
nothing happened we were just kind of
traveling around the savannas and like
just chillin and making tools and like
building fire and so on and in the
future was very predictable than to a
certain degree maybe people weren't
predicting but it was it was not going
to change so drastically right but the
technology that we have now is spread
taking and so and this isn't that far
from you like this is stuff that you
will be interacting with like
self-driving cars or around the corner
like they're gonna put millions of
drivers out of work pretty quickly and
taxi drivers and so on and it's going to
actually be really good for a lot of
reasons like a lot less death due to
traffic accidents and so on but then we
also need to start building stuff like
some other ways of retraining those
people
so that they can actually have a living
and like they're not just completely
forgot of work right or we might maybe
should be rethinking our social
structures to not depend on like having
to have a job to deserve eating like
that's kind of crazy right like that
wasn't around like a million years ago
like you didn't have to have a job to
like eat but but now now that's that
happens so with all of this stuff this
is this is from Prometheus a movie where
like I so seek prequel to alien and this
moment Michael Fassbender who plays this
this Android who is creating the alien
that then goes and like does all this
horrible stuff in the future movies and
he's creating it from like some some
like primordial like cells and so on and
he says a lion is fantastic he says big
things have small beginnings because
this is just a few cells that are
dropped into some water and then like
develop and that's really powerfully
true so all the things in our history in
our existence have been very small at
the beginning right so things like fire
probably weren't like this it probably
was not like a huge development to the
people understanding that that happened
life began very easily like these
paintings in a wall when people you know
40,000 years ago when they were like
blowing paint onto a wall there was the
beginning of like expressing symbols
into a wall that they could read and
interact with other people like across
thousands of years and gave them a sense
of history and gave them a sense of like
development which then translated or
like help them think about locations and
tribes and so on and perhaps provided
the first beginnings of something like
writing which then you know gave us
books and so on like this acceleration
happened through all these tiny little
steps things that at the time didn't
seem breathtaking the the process is a
very good example like Gutenberg was
actually kind of like an entrepreneur of
the day he had been working on some
coinage he had been like minting coins
and like learned about pressing metals
and like getting them engraved and he's
like wait why can't we do that to paper
as well and make it way faster and
cheaper and he thought of it as a
business idea he actually went and like
raised some money from a friend and
you know created like this little
business to try and like sell a bunch of
copies of a Bible turns out like he
ended up getting sued because he used
the money for stuff that was not related
to the business so they're not a great
entrepreneur perhaps but it was not like
this this you know he wasn't setting out
to say I'm going to revolutionize the
future and I'm going to create this
press it just sort of happened
incrementally but these simple things
ended up being pivotal changes right
like just the development that one thing
unlocked all this other innovation you
know things like live all the arpanet
like look at little like drawing with
like these four nodes straight like
that's that's the beginning of the
ARPANET or the web itself like the web
when Tim berners-lee had been working
for like years on something similar he'd
been working for like I think over five
years maybe ten years on systems of
information distribution and so on
until he actually nailed the HTTP
protocol and nailed like that
construction of the web and he was this
pivotal change it happened extremely
quickly and now all the applications
that you use all the things that you
rely on daily come from these systems
and right on these changes and
improvements that a few individuals made
right like if you were to trace all of
the people that were involved in some of
these projects the number isn't
thousands the number is like maybe
hundreds right it's not you know
millions of people that are like working
on the stuff is very it's a small number
of people and so these things that are
happening now are small and don't seem
very big but will become very big this
is
optogenetics this gives us readwrite to
a brain it's very primitive right now
but it gives you the ability to read
neurons and to write neurons and so just
give it give it ten years give it 20
years where it were that technology
going to go we might see human brain
machine interfaces in not very long how
is that going to change us as humans how
is that going to change what we do what
we make and so on so these okay this is
not a feature these these come with big
challenges right so the technology we
make can be used for evil right and so
can be used to destroy ourselves so we
saw that in the 20th century with a with
nuclear weapons and we still have those
massive stockpiles I could blow up at
any moment we are totally screwing
ourselves up with global warming or you
know climate change in different ways I
think this is an area we created CRISPR
which is ability to like cut and paste
DNA and like now we're starting program
it which will be amazing for curing
diseases on improving our own genomes
and finally we can hack our bodies right
like that'll be amazing like we were
able to upgrade ourselves and like you
know package manager installed some like
cure to a disease that will be super
cool but at the same time imagine all
the exploits are going to happen
potentially right like on all of the
problems that are going to emerge and
this is like a steaming ahead like this
is this is coming in like the next few
decades right and and in decades like
feels so big to us like what 10 years 20
years like it's an idea right but
because we were so in the moment we're
selling like the next year next two
years we're so short-sighted in our
views and so like I'm talking about all
of this to get you to kind of like step
back for a moment and consider what your
work the things that you're building and
the things that how people are will be
using those things and what other things
might you build down the future what
what future do you want to create
because you have that ability to create
that future right and so we have a lot
of problems and these challenges are
very real and these challenges are in
our generation so a lot of these
problems we have we might have some of
the other ones like we don't know maybe
machine learning turns out to be like
not so great and we can't get AI for
like another few hundred years or maybe
it's around the corner people are very
divided on this like a lot of the AI
experts are very divided on this it
might be close and so these are
challenges that you will face and so all
of this stuff like this like heavy stuff
really boils down to two options for
Humanity right either we go extinct
because some one of these like horrible
things happens and we all die or we
don't go extinct right like this is like
pretty obvious minor E but but the point
is that not going extinct is really hard
not going extinct is not easy for a
species to achieve there's so much
that's like horrible about the universe
and like things happening all the time
and so we actually have to try really
hard
as as a species to survive and so
individually what does that mean for us
as an individual right wow this is too
heavy man what are you talking about
this is like a develop look at
programming conference what what are you
this is not a philosophy course man like
I didn't come here for this the reason
I'm talking about all this is that you
have two options and it's an individual
within this species either you nothing
and you do the average thing and that's
fine and like maybe kind of boring
maybe it's exciting but it's actually
kind of irresponsible because you you
know about these potential threats and
you just don't want to deal with them
because they're still like big and scary
and you're like ah I don't want to know
and so like you just don't care about
them and then the world gets screwed up
or you can work on solving these
problems and you can like work on the
science and work in the tech and work in
the design of the things that we're
going to build to work in the policy
work in education work on all these
finding these kinds of solutions and
it's not even a given that it's going to
succeed but hey we can we can damn well
try and in the thing though is that
going back to what I was saying earlier
your cyber Wizards right like every
single person in this room is at a
programming conference because you're
involved it with software in some format
or another you're part of something
extremely special like the this thing
this like ability to take writings on a
piece of paper and translate them to
instructions that a machine will operate
on like billions of times and will cause
tremendous things to happen is very
special like that wasn't around a long
time ago it's we take it for granted
because it's so easy you just drop into
a console and do it right like every day
it happens but that's a very powerful
thing and the thing is that most of the
people on the planet don't have that
power you have that power but most
people on the planet don't and so you
have to think carefully about how you
use it and so cyber Wizards in this room
I I hope that you follow the footsteps
of some of these cyber Wizards who have
given us all of these great things that
we use today I think every single person
on this slide has touched your life in
some way and you rely on their work in
some form or another but their teams
when you actually dig into the lives of
these people and what they worked on
their teams were not that big they were
actually quite small and so
what I'm getting at is that you as an
individual can have people to impact on
the rest of the planet on the rest of
the species if you think carefully about
what you're doing and if you think
carefully about what you want the future
to be like and so this boils down to
three problems for me personally and for
the ipfs project directly and and this
is kind of like where I bring it back
and I like go down from like this you
know totally off in the heavens talking
about other stuff and bring it back to
to grounding and in the computing that
we're doing this this is about three
problems for us it's about secure
communications for Humanity so being
able to communicate peer-to-peer in a
secure way disk this is very contentious
today it can lead to a lot of problems
there's a lot of attacks going on right
now particularly in Europe and other
parts of the world and people can use
these privacy technologies to cause a
lot of harm which will make a lot of
people doubt the utility of these things
and potentially ban them this almost
happened it like in the US or was a very
strong case recently with Apple and like
the phones and so on where people
weren't trying to take away this ability
and right to privacy but the thing is in
the reason we side with with securing
our communications is that we remember
what happened in the 20th century we
remember what happened with like these
very strong fascist organizations that
took over a lot of countries you should
remember it very carefully here in Spain
it happened here on Catalunya and was
not very well I was not doing well
during that period of time and so we
know that this has occurred in the past
groups have taken power of the all forms
of communication and subjugated a lot of
people so it's very dangerous to then
suddenly grant that cake capacity to a
few actors that are supposed to use it
for good and yeah maybe they will but
their successors may not and suddenly in
the moment that you grant them this key
that is an attractor for people that
might not want to do good and so
thankfully we don't have to work on the
communications for Humanity that much
because that's doing well with Tor and
other projects like that I mentioned it
because it's a segue into secure
computation for humanity and that's
something that we
I care personally a lot about and the
IFS cares about project cares about and
so this is different from communicating
but it rides on private communication
and this is the ability to have access
to computing this is the ability to have
access to applications and have an
application platform that you can use
with each other and the reason it's
important and the reason is important to
give this to every person in the planet
is that it's it's a huge power to be
able to have access to computing right
as we were discussing your cyber Wizards
you have this magical power that you can
do all this amazing stuff with and you
also grant all these super powers to
people imagine being cut out from this
or imagine being on some on some
situation when suddenly your government
decides oh yeah we don't like this group
of people because you know like we don't
like them and we're going to cut them
off from communicating with your loved
ones or we're going to cut them off from
like having access to health care or
we're going to cut them off from like
having being able to store files and
like suddenly like it's their start
losing some very simple things that you
don't think matter that much but when
you think about it deeply like think
about your daily lives think about how
much of what you do on a day to day
basis now right entirely on the internet
on the web in some way on these
applications and so secure competition
for humanity is a really important goal
for us the last one is secure secure
flourishing of knowledge this is a
little mouthful it's a little weird but
what this is trying to get to is that
knowledge is like computing and the
ability to compute is a very powerful
thing being able to know how to do
something confers power on the only
person who knows something and so we
want to be able to have flourishing of
knowledge science in the development and
so on but also secure it make sure that
people can't erase history and like
remove things that they did that were
really bad that should be remembered or
that we don't hide important pieces of
knowledge from people that need it or
that we give access to people to
journals that have like direct
directions on medicine that they should
be able to use to cure themselves right
like right now there's this huge problem
in academia in scientific publishing
where tons of journals are completely
locked up and there's lots of people
around the planet that have no ability
to access those journals right
and there are people that are dying
because of this because they cannot
access the knowledge in these medical
journals and that's insane and it's not
the scientists that are like locking
this up it's like these other publisher
groups that are just leeching on the
entire ecosystem and there are software
projects to try and end this there are
software projects that are trying to
create journals to to fight this there
are software projects that are trying to
like liberate some of that stuff we take
a very like careful stance on this where
we want to make sure that everything
that's open access is there for good
that we establish a public record that
we establish what what the scientific
publications are that we know what the
references are that when you sign a
paper you can cite it by hash and you
know that that's exactly the paper that
you cited and you can get it back always
something that you can once it's open
access you can copy it you can store it
and you never have to trust that some
service out there survives when it might
shut down as Joe was saying the other
day like how do you know that your
pictures are going to be around in 200
years or 100 or 50 what about all the
scientific literature that right now is
getting poured into these these
repositories that may not be around in
ten years let alone 50 so much data so
much science is disappearing because of
stupid mismanagement of information like
it's it's a joke it's it's it's terrible
that's actually the reason I I went on
this like tirade of building the ipfs
project I was trying to build a data set
package manager' I was like whoa like
why is data not being managed directly
like we have get we have bet torrent
like this is how hard could this be
right like let's just write a data set
package manager' and like turn out to be
the biggest reaction in the world or
like I'm three years in like you know no
end in sight but but the point is like
they're these are things that like that
that seems small because they're like oh
yeah like open access journals from
there or like oh yeah being able to read
a paper I can I can like find it on
Google alright or like I have access I
can ask a friend for it or something but
a lot of people in the planet can't or
that's just not right to do because it's
not legal and like you shouldn't do that
and like you should actually fight to
get it to change the law and to make
things open access I'm actually really
proud that several countries in the EU
are forcing a lot of place
to completely do open-access stuff and
cannot publish close at most faxes
things which is amazing all right so
really let's make a count right like
this is your epic like you are humans
you're cyber wizards in 2016
you have amazing superpowers that very
few people on the planet have use that
power for good in some way and so here's
a picture of Mars with earth because we
want to go to Mars and I professes this
file system to make files available
across systems that takes into account
the latency and bandwidth disparities
between planets because it turns out to
be very similar to the disparities in
the regular world when you think about
the developing countries right so like
the the bad connectivity problems that
you would have if you were trying to
like use the web with Mars are similar
to the same kind of connectivity
problems that you would have when you
try to like interact with people in very
poorly connected areas of the planet or
or even in not so poorly connected
here's the planet but that just have
like really slow Wi-Fi or something and
so that's why I like offline matters a
lot to us cool so let me check on time
because I've been going for a while so
it's I think can someone tell me how
much time because I started early and I
had a little bit more time I'm looking
at anyone till 4 or 5 okay so 15 more
minutes cool in that time I'm going to
shift gears completely and I'm now going
to talk to you about what the ipfs
project is and I'm going to give you a
very quick description of the goals and
then I'm going to give you a tour of the
of the of the different projects that we
have going of the different things that
we're building and then I'll show you a
demo so this is a development of the
Internet to some degree like you can see
packet switching you can see the ARPANET
the nice nervous system we built and
then you can see these applications that
we're building right and so the web
right now is pretty brittle because it's
totally centralized so you have to
maintain this connection open to the
backbone all the time and that's that
doesn't quite work in a lot of context
right like you you might get
disconnected you might be offline you
might be in a country that does
have nice connectivity so it won't work
so well so the goal of ipfs is to allow
applications to be built such that they
can reference content and link content
to each other and compute without
reliance on any central location so that
you can address information without
directly relying on any one party so
today when you address a page on the net
you say hey I'm going to go to you know
example.com
so that means that you have to look up
where example.com is on the network and
then go talk to example.com
but what is the same asset is somewhere
else why can't you get it from whoever
right it's like that's that's the one
the core problems that I professor
solving so so these are some problems in
the web right like totally not in mobile
all right in mobile sort of but like not
really and it's hugely inefficient links
break all over the place right so some
reference that you may like it's gone
within within you know 100 days or
something it is a terrible security
model right like you it's secure but
it's not the data is not encrypted at
rest so that means that anyone on either
side can like just look at all the stuff
and change it nothing is signed it's
it's totally bogus and there's no
offline use right so everyone right now
if we were working on a Google Doc and
you know the Wi-Fi cut out we would not
be able to work together anymore but
like that's totally crap right like what
like we have supercomputers right like
Joe walked us through this like what we
carry in our pockets right now is like
more powerful than like supercomputers
were not too long ago so why can we have
nice networks like why can't we
communicate with each other right so
that's that's this is this is a stunted
problem with how the web works today
that you shouldn't have to be connected
to the backbone all the time and another
one is censorship right like the ability
for just someone to just cut access on
like one pipe and then just shut down
everyone's ability to communicate like
that's that's a serious issue and you
know it
Egypt knows that really well because
that happened to them and it hasn't
happened in other nicely developed
countries but it could and
and you know if you have nice local area
networks you should be able to continue
using your applications so we are
building a new protocol to put the
weapon on it that's distributed it gives
you permanent addresses it's meant to be
faster and safer and it's meant to work
offline and it has a lot in common with
get a lot in common with BitTorrent and
plan nines file systems and so on and
it's part of this wave of change that's
coming that's sort of like bubbling up
in like these weird areas of the network
how many people here have used or
actively used Bitcoin a fair amount like
about a fourth of the room how many
people have used or have heard of
aetherium
Wow about the same number that's that's
pretty cool you know there's a whole
bunch of things happening in that area
of the world or lack of tech that very
interesting new experiments are being
made right now that if they prove
successful can dramatically change how
people transact on the network so
payments is one thing that's easy but
contracts like the ability to do legal
contracts between entities or the
ability to transact for sales and so on
in a completely decentralized way there
are potentials of creating things like
uber entirely automated so so these
these changes that are brewing right now
are extremely interesting and if you
haven't dived if you haven't taken a
dive into that tech I strongly encourage
you to take a look because it's it's
it's very compelling area we sometimes
use this analogy of saying hey like
imagine that computers are connected
with the Internet and then the web was
the ability to just move around some
static content between them web 1.0 and
then web 2.0 was the ability to address
programs that were stored of those
computers and be able to run them and so
what we think what 3.0 will be is and
Bitcoin and aetherium and so on are in
this line of thinking is that you just
invert the relationship and say content
should link to content program should
link to programs and the authorities
you get disintermediated so it doesn't
really matter who's running the
computation it doesn't really matter
where it's happening
as long as it's you know it you want to
optimize it you want to make it happen
where it's cheap but you don't wanna
have to trust those entities you don't
wanna have to trust those those entities
to be to do something correct
you want to use cryptography to have
them proof that they did it correctly
right
and so the aquifer stack is a you know
set of protocols that are inspired by
these on the right the web s if s get
baturin HDS and so on and they roughly
break up into these sections so we took
all the bottom part which is like lots
of awesome peer-to-peer stuff like PhDs
and discovery protocols and a lot of
like hard peer-to-peer networking magic
and we are putting it into this library
called lit p2p and there's you know
implementations you can go on JavaScript
and people can use it to build any kind
of peer-to-peer system and so that's
that's pretty useful for other systems
and then on top of that we build this
thing we call IPL D and so IPL d stands
for interplanetary link data and the
idea is to be able to have data that
links to each other and that where those
links are secured at a planetary scale
where you can move around this data and
trust that it will be linked exactly the
same way when you move it from one
planet to another which is similar to
when you move it from a data center out
into another area than I work to the
edge of the network I feel these words
like a thin waist and I peel these based
on these data structures the core idea
of ipfs is to is to take this hash
linking and apply it to everything on
the network to just hash link all pieces
of content and not only all pieces of
content but like do it on a granular
object level so that you can define
whatever whatever object you have so
when you build an application you have
some JSON data structure you can link
from one data structure to another using
a hash and what that gives you is
security like it gives you some
authenticated way of checking that the
thing you're linking to is still the
same thing and that nobody has changed
it it also is awesome for caching and
offline because you can just move the
content right you don't have to keep
servers on online you can just send them
the stuff a payload so distributed data
structure is authenticated data
structure is hash link data structures
that's what the card of ipfs
and so we think of it as like not a
Merkel tree but like a Merkel forest
where all these different data
structures can live and can be
referenced to each other and can be
linked together
and so I feel these a common hashtag
format and the the addressing of ipfs
looks a little bit like this so at the
very bottom you have these content
addresses that are these are immutable
permanent addresses to the content so
that's what I was doing earlier with
these hashes on the files where like
that's just a file system at the bottom
like it's just some directory structures
it's very similar to get then then you
have key names and these key names are a
a permanent address that you can hand
out but they're mutable meaning that I
can change the pointer so I can I can
mutate what the pointer is and I don't
it's like a DNS name but it doesn't have
it's not human readable which means that
I don't have to buy it from anyone I
don't have to go to a centralized
authority and ask them please can I have
a name can I rent the name because I
don't really own it I can I kind of rent
a name and I kind of pointed to
something and you know at any point the
the registrar's can take that name away
from you or people can like have the
name point to something else if they
don't like you and this has happened and
the network in certain countries it
happens quite a bit and then at the top
you can use the NS naming or any other
kind of nice human readable stuff and
then pointed to a key name or pointing
to a Content address directly so if you
want to have human readability that's
cool that totally use like we use it all
the time but you are giving up security
for doing so and so as long as you can
still have the secure lower layers then
you're better off and so this is like
what the addressing looks like I have
four minutes so the the project is
pretty big now so we have in a huge
project with a bunch of little sub
projects we have this number is now
larger more than four hundred
contributors and around 70 contribute
weekly there's a ton of like little like
a huge ecosystem is emerging with lots
of projects inside of it so IPF is we
like ripped out a lipid EP and it's
becoming its own thing we have like
these multi formats that are like for
secure systems and a lot is like each
one of these could be like a whole talk
so it's a very exciting so if you're
looking for like cool open source
distributed systems things like have at
it right like it's a really awesome
community I'm extremely lucky like I am
insanely lucky to have found an amazing
group of people on the network that are
interested in the same stuff but are
super-friendly that like want to care
about building good stuff and like our
diligent and our like work hard and
we're like we are seeing a budding
growing ecosystem that like you know a
few months from now a year from now it's
kind of like it just explode with a ton
of like power and a bunch of areas right
like it just so much stuff is happening
concurrently right now really exciting
stuff so there's nothing networking into
super systems and in how you represent
files and how you like publish websites
and how you archive stuff and how do you
do identity in a distributed way we're
like how do you do logging in without a
server that's kind of crazy like how
could you do that what happens when
people lose their private keys lots of
interesting questions the app FS
protocol has two implementations right
now one and go one in JavaScript and the
I think like the most interesting thing
that it does right now is this
distributed apps thing like being able
to to take a whole single page
application that could do dynamic
content package it into a piece of
content a bundle and ship it around to
the network and now you can serve it and
like that's the host of the application
like anyone is a host of the application
you don't have a specific address you
can retrieve from anyone you can access
it anywhere you can go offline and
continue using it so it behaves somewhat
like a web app and somewhat like a
mobile app it's a very interesting place
to be and it's going to cause changes in
the browser it's already happening
there's there's an experimental browser
called beaker that is really cool that
has been you know going into using our
stuff and like providing better ways of
of using it but you know like everything
we're doing like it still works with
with Chrome and Firefox so you can still
use everything just fine like we work
really hard to make that happen
cool and so you know for any kind of
static content like package managers
ipfs is awesome you can use it for
things like accelerating NPM and we have
this like package manager for go like we
were guess we had a bunch of problems
with like go packages not being version
controlled and we were really frustrated
by this because we come from the hash
linking world and what I quote this is
madness so we we made one just check it
out it's pretty cool people use it for
secure documents a matching being able
to have like linked with a hash in a PDF
right like you create a
and you cite a reference and your
instead of linking to a URL that's going
to change tomorrow you can link to the
hash of something and you know that it's
like actually secure this is Orbitz the
thing I showed you the one I showed you
is like pretty old is looking from a few
months ago it has someone that works in
the browser if you want to download the
electron app it's like way cooler and it
can do like video streaming and chat and
like threaded conversations and a lot of
really cool stuff open Bazaar like this
eBay style thing with Bitcoin uses ipfs
there's a bunch of other things that
people are using and so this is the part
where I would go into other demos but I
think I'm almost at a time another
minute I wanted to say that we are
having a meet-up tomorrow where we're
going to talk about more of these things
dive into stuff like demos and so on and
answer people's questions and so on so
like there's a bunch of people
interested and working on ipfs in the
area in Barcelona so we're going to just
get together I believe somewhere around
here Victor do you know what the time is
so where I'll post it somewhere so if
you're interested in that I will send
you send you the information cool so I
think we said 1605 and 1604 so I think
that's it I'll leave you with one one
demo
I don't might go a little bit of time
and I wanted to dedicate this to to Joe
because he showed us a PDP earlier so
for those of you who know what the PDP
is it's like this really awesome machine
that UNIX was built on and so here is
the very first this is like totally like
sandbox in ipfs like the whole website
is like living on this my machine I
could go offline I can use it so this is
this is space war it's like the it's
like an emulator like this this
JavaScript app is emulating a pdp-11
the machine they built unix on and all
right this is space war like the wood i
think is the first I think the first
good really good video game that just
consumed tons of people's time I was
like huge thing like if you were not
into space where all the time like you
don't know what you were doing
um so you can totally play Sam thank him
there we go so this is this is actual
PDP leaven code running on an emulator
in JavaScript archived forever now
because I have the hash and nobody can
take it away from me like this page is
now in my machine and like I can use it
whenever I want
so and I died so with that that is the I
pathetic and thank you so much for
listening thank you so much for
everything